( 35 ) 
CHAPTER II. 
Elizabeth had settled it that Mr.
Darcy would bring his sister to visit her,
the very day after her reaching Pember-
ley; and was consequently resolved not
to be out of sight of the inn the whole of
that morning. But her conclusion was 
false; for on the very morning after 
their own arrival at Lambton, these 
visitors came. They had been walking 
about the place with some of their new 
friends, and were just returned to the inn 
to dress themselves for dining with the 
same family, when the sound of a car-
riage drew them to a window, and they
saw a gentleman and lady in a curricle, 
driving up the street. Elizabeth im-
mediately recognising the livery, guessed
what it meant, and imparted no small 
degree of surprise to her relations, by 
acquainting them with the honour which 
she 
( 36 )
she expected. Her uncle and aunt were
all amazement; and the embarrass-
ment of her manner as she spoke, joined 
to the circumstance itself, and many of 
the circumstances of the preceding day, 
opened to them a new idea on the busi-
ness. Nothing had ever suggested it 
before, but they now felt that there was 
no other way of accounting for such at-
tentions from such a quarter, than by 
supposing a partiality for their niece. 
While these newly-born notions were 
passing in their heads, the perturbation 
of Elizabeth's feelings was every moment 
increasing. She was quite amazed at 
her own discomposure; but amongst 
other causes of disquiet, she dreaded lest 
the partiality of the brother should have 
said too much in her favour; and more 
than commonly anxious to please, she 
naturally suspected that every power of 
pleasing would fail her.  
She retreated from the window, fear-
ful 
( 37 ) 
ful of being seen; and as she walked up 
and down the room, endeavouring to 
compose herself, saw such looks of en-
quiring surprise in her uncle and aunt,
as made every thing worse.  
Miss Darcy and her brother appeared, 
and this formidable introduction took 
place. With astonishment did Elizabeth 
see, that her new acquaintance was at 
least as much embarrassed as herself. 
Since her being at Lambton, she had h
eard that Miss Darcy was exceedingly 
proud; but the observation of a very 
few minutes convinced her, that she was 
only exceedingly shy. She found it 
difficult to obtain even a word from her 
beyond a monosyllable.  
Miss Darcy was tall, and on a larger 
scale than Elizabeth; and, though little 
more than sixteen, her figure was formed, 
and her appearance womanly and grace-
ful. She was less handsome than her 
brother, but there was sense and good 
humour 
( 38 )
humour in her face, and her manners 
were perfectly unassuming and gentle.
Elizabeth, who had expected to find in 
her as acute and unembarrassed an ob-
server as ever Mr. Darcy had been, was 
much relieved by discerning such dif-
ferent feelings.  
They had not been long together, 
before Darcy told her that Bingley was 
also coming to wait on her; and she had 
barely time to express her satisfaction, 
and prepare for such a visitor, when 
Bingley's quick step was heard on the 
stairs, and in a moment he entered the 
room. All Elizabeth's anger against him 
had been long done away; but, had she 
still felt any, it could hardly have stood 
its ground against the unaffected cor-
diality with which he expressed himself, 
on seeing her again. He enquired in a 
friendly, though general way, after her 
family, and looked and spoke with the 
same good-humoured ease that he had 
ever done. 
To